Governor Newsom signs $2.5 billion bipartisan relief package to help Los Angeles recover and rebuild faster from firestorm | Governor of California
Skip to content
Los Angeles fires:
Go to CA.gov/LAfires for latest information and resources
Governor of California
About
Priorities
News
Join the Administration
First Partner
Contact
To search the site, enter a search term
Official website of the State of California
CA.gov
Resources for California
Key services
Health insurance or Medi-Cal
Business licenses
Food & social assistance
Find a CA state job
Vehicle registration
More +
Digital vaccine record
Traffic tickets
Birth certificates
Lottery numbers
Unemployment
View all CA.gov services
Less -
Popular topics
Abortion
Building California
Climate Action
Gun Safety
Mental health care for all
Opioids
Back to top
News
Jan 23, 2025
Governor Newsom signs $2.5 billion bipartisan relief package to help Los Angeles recover and rebuild faster from firestorm
What you need to know:
Alongside community, city, county, and legislative leaders, Governor Newsom signed special session legislation to provide over $2.5 billion for Los Angeles to bolster ongoing response efforts and jumpstart recovery and rebuilding.
LOS ANGELES – With recovery efforts already underway to support those impacted by the Los Angeles hurricane-force firestorm, Governor Gavin Newsom today joined community, city, county, and legislative leaders in near the fire-damaged community of Altadena and signed legislation providing over $2.5 billion in disaster relief. The funding will immediately help bolster ongoing emergency response efforts as well as jumpstart recovery efforts.
The special session legislation – ABx1-4 by Assemblymember Jesse Gabriel (D-Encino) and SBx1-3 by Senator Scott Wiener (D-San Francisco) – provides funding to expedite firestorm response and recovery efforts, streamline rebuilding efforts, and help rebuild fire-damaged school facilities.
“Thanks to our partners in the legislature, we’re providing over $2.5 billion in immediate relief – expediting initial firestorm response and recovery efforts. We’re also directing millions of dollars to help local governments speed up building approvals – so folks can rebuild their homes faster.
Unlike MAGA Republicans in Washington who talk about delaying relief for political purposes, California is supporting our people with no strings attached. Together, we’ll rebuild Los Angeles.”
Governor Gavin Newsom
“California leaders from both political parties are united and working together to provide L.A. with the immediate assistance and support they need,”
said Assembly Speaker Robert Rivas.
“Today, we approved billions of dollars to help clean-up devastated neighborhoods, rebuild schools and put communities on a path to recovery. I thank the Governor, Pro Tem and my colleagues for moving with urgency. This is a first step, but we are committed to a full recovery and will stand with Angelenos until this work is done.”
“This $2.5 billion is a clear commitment that we’ve got your back LA,”
said Senate President Pro Tempore Mike McGuire (D-North Coast).
“We’ve got your back now and we’ve got your back in the months and years to come. Your rebuild and your comeback is our priority. We’re grateful to Governor Newsom, Speaker Rivas and our legislative colleagues who moved with urgency to get this funding across the finish line. This downpayment is just the beginning.”
How it works
$2.5 billion to expedite initial firestorm response and recovery efforts.
This includes support for:
Emergency protective measures, evacuations, sheltering for survivors, debris removal and cleanup, post-fire hazard assessments (such as flash flooding and debris flows), traffic control, and other necessary emergency response activities.
$4 million to help expedite rebuilding.
The Department of Housing and Community Development will allocate this funding to impacted local governments to provide additional planning review and building inspection resources for the purpose of expediting building approvals during the recovery period.
$1 million to rebuild fire-damaged school facilities.
The funding will provide technical assistance to impacted local educational agencies (Los Angeles Unified School District, Pasadena Unified School District, impacted charter schools).
Supporting recovery, protecting survivors
Governor Newsom has issued a number of executive orders in response to the Los Angeles fire storms to help aid in rebuilding and recovery, create more temporary housing, and protect survivors from exploitation and price gouging:
Providing tax relief to those impacted by the fires.
California postponed the
individual tax filing deadline
to October 15 for Los Angeles County taxpayers. Additionally, the state extended the January 31, 2025, sales and use tax filing deadline for Los Angeles County taxpayers until April 30 — providing
critical tax relief for businesses
.
Rebuilding Los Angeles faster and stronger.
Governor Newsom issued an executive order to
streamline the rebuilding of homes and businesses
destroyed — suspending permitting and review requirements under the California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA) and the California Coastal Act.
Fast-tracking temporary housing and protecting tenants and homeowners.
To help
provide necessary shelter
for those immediately impacted by the firestorms, the Governor issued an executive order to make it easier to streamline construction of accessory dwelling units, allow for more temporary trailers and other housing, and suspend fees for mobile home parks. Governor Newsom also
issued an executive order
that prohibits landlords in Los Angeles County from evicting tenants for sharing their rental with survivors displaced by the Los Angeles-area firestorms. For homeowners, California has worked with five major lenders to provide
mortgage relief
to their customers.
Mobilizing debris removal and cleanup.
With an eye toward recovery, the Governor
directed fast action
on debris removal work and mitigating the potential for mudslides and flooding in areas burned. He also
signed an executive order
to allow expert federal hazmat crews to start cleaning up properties as a key step in getting people back to their properties safely. The Governor also
issued an executive order
to help mitigate risk of mudslides and flooding and protect communities by hastening efforts to remove debris, bolster flood defenses, and stabilize hillsides in affected areas.
Safeguarding survivors from price gouging.
Governor Newsom expanded restrictions to protect survivors from illegal price hikes on
rent, hotel and motel costs
, and
building materials or construction
. Report violations to the Office of the Attorney General
here
.
Getting kids back in the classroom.
Governor Newsom signed an executive order to
quickly assist displaced students
in the Los Angeles area and bolster schools affected by the firestorms.
Protecting victims from real estate speculators.
The Governor issued an executive order to
protect firestorm victims
from predatory land speculators making aggressive and unsolicited cash offers to purchase victims’ property.
Get help today
Californians can go to
CA.gov/LAfires
– a hub for information and resources from state, local and federal government.
Individuals and business owners who sustained losses from wildfires in Los Angeles County can apply for disaster assistance:
Online at
DisasterAssistance.gov
By calling 800-621-3362
By using the FEMA smart phone
application
Assistance is available in
over 40 languages
If you use a relay service, such as video relay service (VRS), captioned telephone service or others, give FEMA the number for that service.
Press Releases
,
Public Safety
,
Recent News
,
Top Story
Facebook
X
Email
Copy Link
Recent news
With rain incoming, California takes action to protect fire-impacted communities in Los Angeles County
Mar 5, 2025
News What you need to know: Governor Newsom has directed his Office of Emergency Services to coordinate with key partners during this next round of winter weather to strategically preposition critical resources to protect the public.  Los Angeles, California – As...
California seizes $534 million in illegal cannabis in 2024
Mar 4, 2025
News What you need to know: California enforcement officials have seized an estimated retail value of $534 million of unlicensed cannabis in 2024. Since 2019, officials have seized approximately $2.8 billion in illegal cannabis. Sacramento, California – Reinforcing...
With growing fire risk, Governor Newsom proclaims state of emergency to fast-track critical wildfire prevention projects statewide
Mar 1, 2025
News What you need to know: Governor Newsom is proclaiming a state of emergency to fast-track critical forest management projects – part of the state’s ongoing efforts to protect communities from catastrophic wildfire. SACRAMENTO – Following the devastation of the Los...
About
Contact us
Sign up for news updates
Join the Administration
Organizational chart
Initiatives
Abortion access
Building California's future
Climate action
Gun safety
Mental health for all
Awareness campaigns
Heat Ready
Ready for Wildfire
Register to Vote
Save Our Water
Clemency & Parole
Clemency
Parole
Rewards for unsolved cases
Footer Utility Links
Conditions of Use
Privacy Policy
Accessibility
Website Certification
Sitemap
Footer Social Media Links
Website Publishing Information
Powered by: CAWeb Publishing Service
© Copyright
2025
Copy link
✓
Thanks for sharing!
Find any service
AddToAny
More…