Here are all the actions Governor Newsom has taken in response to the Los Angeles fires | Governor of California
Skip to content
Los Angeles fires:
Go to CA.gov/LAfires for latest information and resources
Governor of California
About
Priorities
News
Join the Administration
First Partner
Contact
To search the site, enter a search term
Official website of the State of California
CA.gov
Resources for California
Key services
Health insurance or Medi-Cal
Business licenses
Food & social assistance
Find a CA state job
Vehicle registration
More +
Digital vaccine record
Traffic tickets
Birth certificates
Lottery numbers
Unemployment
View all CA.gov services
Less -
Popular topics
Abortion
Building California
Climate Action
Gun Safety
Mental health care for all
Opioids
Back to top
News
Jan 24, 2025
Here are all the actions Governor Newsom has taken in response to the Los Angeles fires
See actions by day
Launched historic recovery and rebuilding efforts — faster than ever before
Cutting red tape to help rebuild
Los Angeles faster and stronger.
Governor Newsom issued an executive order to
streamline the rebuilding of homes and businesses
destroyed — suspending permitting and review requirements under the California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA) and the California Coastal Act. The Governor also issued an executive order
further cutting red tape
by reiterating that permitting requirements under the California Coastal Act are suspended for rebuilding efforts and directing the Coastal Commission not to issue guidance or take any action that interferes with or conflicts with the Governor’s executive orders. Additionally, he signed an executive order to
cut more red tape
and continue streamlining rebuilding, recovery, and relief for survivors. The Governor also
issued an executive order
removing bureaucratic barriers, extending deadlines, and providing critical regulatory relief to help fire survivors rebuild, access essential services, and recover more quickly.
Providing tax and mortgage relief to those impacted by the fires.
California postponed the
individual tax filing deadline
to October 15 for Los Angeles County taxpayers. Additionally, the state extended the January 31, 2025, sales and use tax filing deadline for Los Angeles County taxpayers until April 30 — providing
critical tax relief for businesses
. Governor Newsom suspended penalties and interest on late property tax payments for a year,
effectively extending the state property tax deadline
. The Governor also worked with
state
– and
federally-chartered banks
that have committed to providing mortgage relief for survivors in certain zip codes. For additional relief, Governor Newsom is
sponsoring new legislation
to allow homeowners who receive insurance payments for lost or damaged property to receive the interest accrued rather than lenders. The Governor is also proposing to create an
over $125 million mortgage relief program
to assist homeowners whose homes were destroyed or severely damaged by recent natural disasters, placing them at risk of foreclosure.
Fast-tracking temporary housing and protecting tenants.
To help
provide necessary shelter
for those immediately impacted by the firestorms, the Governor issued an executive order to make it easier to streamline construction of accessory dwelling units, allow for more temporary trailers and other housing, and suspend fees for mobile home parks. Governor Newsom also
issued an executive order
that prohibits landlords in Los Angeles County from evicting tenants for sharing their rental with survivors displaced by the Los Angeles-area firestorms.
Mobilizing debris removal and cleanup.
With an eye toward recovery, the Governor
directed fast action
on debris removal work and mitigating the potential for mudslides and flooding in areas burned. He also
signed an executive order
to allow expert federal hazmat crews to start cleaning up properties as a key step in getting people back to their properties safely. The Governor also
issued an executive order
to help mitigate risk of mudslides and flooding and protect communities by hastening efforts to remove debris, bolster flood defenses, and stabilize hillsides in affected areas. Governor Newsom joined federal and local partners to
begin work on structural debris removal
— just 35 days after the start of the fires, a record-breaking pace for cleanup. In less than 30 days, federal and state crews
completed wildfire hazardous debris cleanup
for the Eaton and Palisades fires – marking the fastest-ever hazardous debris removal effort in the nation.
Safeguarding survivors from price gouging.
Governor Newsom expanded restrictions to protect survivors from illegal price hikes on
rent, hotel and motel costs
, and
building materials or construction
. Report violations to the Office of the Attorney General
here
.
Directing immediate state relief.
The Governor signed legislation
providing over $2.5 billion
to immediately support
ongoing emergency response efforts and to jumpstart recovery efforts for Los Angeles. California quickly launched
CA.gov/LAfires
as a single hub of information and resources to support those impacted and
bolsters in-person Disaster Recovery Centers
. That
website features
a
dashboard
tracking recovery efforts and a
recovery services finder
to help connect survivors with help. Governor Newsom announced that individuals and families directly impacted by the recent fires living in certain zip codes may be eligible to receive
Disaster CalFresh food benefits
. Additionally, through his California Jobs First initiative, the Governor announced Los Angeles is getting
$13 million to support rebuilding
and recovery efforts.
Supporting a bottom-up approach to recovery.
The Governor has launched two initiatives to ensure recovery efforts are bottom-up, not top-down. He
launched
LA Rises
, a unified recovery initiative that brings together private sector leaders to support rebuilding efforts. He also
launched Engaged California
, a program to support community conversations about important topics using digital platforms. The launch of
Engaged California
will initially focus on the response to the Los Angeles firestorms, bringing together community members to help influence response efforts and better address issues based on community experiences and voices.
Getting kids back in the classroom and supporting childcare providers.
Governor Newsom signed an executive order to
quickly assist displaced students
in the Los Angeles area and bolster schools affected by the firestorms. Governor Gavin Newsom issued an
executive order
to ensure that childcare providers are aware of their potential eligibility for Disaster Unemployment Assistance and have the support needed to apply.
Protecting victims from real estate speculators.
The Governor issued an executive order to
protect firestorm victims
from predatory land speculators making aggressive and unsolicited cash offers to purchase their property.
Helping businesses and workers get back on their feet.
The Governor issued an executive order to
support small businesses and workers
, by providing relief to help businesses recover quickly by deferring annual licensing fees and waiving other requirements that may impose barriers to recovery.
Partnering with the federal government – across both administrations – to boost California’s rapid response
At the Governor’s request, President Biden
approved a Presidential Major Disaster Declaration
to support ongoing response efforts. The Major Disaster Declaration has been
expanded to support communities
with repairs or replacement of firestorm-damaged public facilities and infrastructure.
In a cell phone call from the firestorm, Governor Newsom requested from President Biden
additional federal assistance
to cover 100% of California’s fire management and debris removal costs for 180 days, up from the traditional 75%.
Within the span of 12 hours,
the Governor secured three Fire Management Assistance Grants (FMAGs) to help ensure the availability of vital resources
to assist firefighting efforts on the
Palisades
,
Eaton
and
Hurst
fires.
Governor Newsom traveled to Washington, DC to
meet with President Trump and members of Congress
— focusing on securing critical disaster aid for survivors and ensuring impacted families who lost their homes and livelihoods have the support they need to rebuild and recover.
Deployed unprecedented firefighting and first responder force – including early pre-positioning
before the fire
Governor Newsom ordered pre-positioned firefighting personnel and assets
on Monday, January 6
–
ahead of the severe fire weather
that started on Tuesday, January 7.
Pre-positioned assets included 110 engines and hundreds of firefighters in strategic locations throughout Southern California, including in Los Angeles. California also pre-positioned assets – including over 300 additional firefighting personnel and 135 additional engines –
once again on January 12
in anticipation of a second round of severe fire weather.
Governor Newsom deployed 16,000+ personnel at the peak of the response,
including firefighters, California National Guard service members, highway patrol officers and transportation teams. These efforts were backed by the
biggest state investment
in fire response in history — nearly doubled since the beginning of the administration. Response efforts included
more than 2,000 pieces of firefighting equipment
, including 1,490+ engines, 80+ aircraft, 200+ dozers and 210+ water tenders to aid in putting out the fires.
The Governor
deployed a surge of California Highway Patrol
Special Response Teams to provide ongoing law enforcement capacity to further protect fire damaged communities in Los Angeles.
Governor Newsom ordered the activation of more than 2,500 California National Guard service members
to
augment firefighting operations
and support local law enforcement to
protect communities from looting
. The Governor’s National Guard activation started with his emergency proclamation on Tuesday, January 7 with
over 600 service members deployed
. The Governor
doubled the number of those deployed
on January 11, and
increased that by 1,000
the next day to a total of 2,500. Also strengthening public safety efforts, the Governor signed an executive order directing state agencies to
support local law enforcement partners
as they lift evacuation orders.
Governor Newsom
proclaimed a state of emergency
on the first day of the fire, Tuesday, January 7, to support communities responding to the fires. He subsequently issued two executive orders to support response and recovery efforts.
Key actions by day
Monday, Jan. 6:
Resources & personnel
prepositioned
in Southern California ahead of forecasted fire weather in the region.
Tuesday, Jan. 7:
Immediately after the firestorms began, the Governor
issued an executive order
, declared a
State of Emergency
to support ongoing response, and announced federal resources have been secured for
Palisades
,
Eaton
, and
Hurst
fires.
Wednesday, Jan. 8:
A
Major Disaster Declaration
was approved by President Biden, just 36 hours after the request was submitted, and as the Governor and the President received a briefing on the ground by CAL FIRE officials. The Governor also announced
mobilizing up to 140 2,500-gallon water tenders
to assist in the firefight.
Thursday, Jan. 9:
During a briefing on the firestorms, President Biden and Vice President Kamala Harris
announced 100% reimbursement rate
by the federal government after a call with the Governor. The Governor
deployed the California National Guard
to assist with local law enforcement efforts.
Friday, Jan. 10:
The Governor issued
his second executive order
, this one focused on public health; and the Governor
called for a review
of the local water distribution system.
Saturday, Jan. 11:
The Governor
announced the state is offering taxpayers in Los Angeles County a postponement
on filing 2024 tax returns and making tax payments that would have been due between January 7 and October 15, 2025. Governor Newsom also announced he
doubled the California National Guard
deployment to aid in firefighting.
Sunday, Jan. 12:
The Governor issued
his third executive order
, this one focused on streamlining rebuilding efforts; and
his fourth executive order
, this one directing fast action to clean debris and mudslides. The Governor also announced the deployment of an
additional 1,000 California National Guard
service members.
Monday, Jan. 13:
The Governor
announced tax relief to small businesses impacted by the LA firestorms
, announced the
expansion of special session to focus on relief efforts
, and
prepositioned emergency personnel
ahead of another round of dangerous weather.
Tuesday, Jan. 14:
The Governor issued
his fifth executive order
, this one focused on schools,
prepositioned and mobilized
debris clean up efforts, and issued
his sixth executive order
, this one focused on protecting people from predatory housing attempts.
Wednesday, Jan. 15:
The Governor announced California has
secured additional federal assistance through the Major Disaster Declaration
, deployed
additional CHP officers
to protect public safety, and issued
his seventh executive order
, this one focused on clean up efforts.
Thursday, Jan. 16:
The Governor issued
his eighth executive order
, this one focused on fast-tracking temporary housing, issued
his ninth executive order
, this one focused on property tax relief, and
announced the availability of new federal funding
for impacted workers.
Friday, Jan. 17:
The Governor issued
his tenth executive order
, this one focused on protecting tenants from eviction.
Saturday, Jan. 18:
The Governor
announced that five major lenders will provide mortgage relief
to their customers, and the
streamlining of access
to local, state, and federal resources.
Sunday, Jan. 19:
The Governor
announced the prepositioning of additional resources and personnel
ahead of forecasted fire weather, and issued
his eleventh executive order
, this one focused on public safety efforts.
Monday, Jan. 20:
The Governor
volunteered with First Partner Jennifer Siebel Newsom at Project Angel Food
to support survivors, announced
efforts to reopen support services
, and issued
his twelfth executive order
, this one focused on flood and debris flow.
Tuesday, Jan. 21:
The Governor
met with workers and small business owners
impacted by the devastating Los Angeles firestorm to hear their stories and highlight the state’s work to help communities rebuild.
Wednesday, Jan. 22:
The Governor
announced the deployment of specialized debris flow teams
to Southern California ahead of forecasted rainy weather.
Thursday, Jan. 23:
The Governor a
nnounced
additional commitments to provide mortgage relief for property owners
whose structures were damaged or destroyed, adding state-chartered banks, credit unions, and mortgage lenders and servicers, as well as additional federally chartered institutions;
bolstered online resources
for survivors;
signed $2.5 billion in relief
to begin recovery and rebuilding efforts.
Friday, Jan. 24:
The Governor a
nnounced
$100 million
(of the $2.5 billion) has already been moved to help with the recovery and rebuilding efforts;
met with first responders
at the front lines of the Hughes Fire; and
welcomed President Trump
to the Los Angeles area as part of the President’s tour of the impacted communities.
Monday, Jan. 27:
The Governor issued his
thirteenth executive order
, this one focused on cutting additional red tape regarding the CA Coastal Commission and extended temporary housing stays to longer than 30 days.
Tuesday, Jan. 28:
The Governor announced the
launch of
LA Rises
, a unified recovery initiative that brings together private sector leaders to support rebuilding efforts
Wednesday, Jan. 29:
The Governor issued his
fourteenth executive order
, this one supporting small business owners and workers.
Friday, Jan. 31:
The Governor
extended law enforcement
resources, financial support, and mutual aid coordination to support local agencies in fire-impacted area.
Saturday, Feb. 1:
The Governor
highlighted
efforts to protect survivors from price-gouging, and
provided additional law enforcement
support to keep the Pacific Palisades closed to non-residents.
Sunday, Feb. 2:
Under the Governor’s directive,
crews have been working around the clock
to install nearly 60 miles of emergency protective materials in the recent Los Angeles-area burn scars to ensure communities impacted by the recent firestorms in Los Angeles are protected from upcoming rainstorms.
Tuesday, Feb. 4:
The Governor signed a new executive order to
cut red tape
by suspending regulations and extending deadlines to assist in helping survivors recover quickly.
Wednesday, Feb. 5:
Governor Newsom announced that individuals and families directly impacted by the firestorms may be eligible to
receive Disaster CalFresh food benefits
. In Washington, D.C, the
Governor met with President Trump
and and members of Congress to secure critical disaster aid for survivors.
Thursday, Feb. 6:
Governor Newsom
continued his bipartisan outreach
in meetings on Capitol Hill with House and Senate leadership that focused on securing critical disaster aid for the survivors.
Monday, Feb. 10:
Governor Newsom announced he is
sponsoring new legislation
to allow homeowners who receive insurance payments for lost or damaged property to receive the interest accrued rather than lenders. The Governor also
announced
that the state’s LA fires hub has a
new dashboard
tracking recovery efforts, as well as a
new recovery services finder
tool for survivors.
Tuesday, Feb. 11:
The
fastest large-scale debris removal
in modern state history began in Altadena and the Pacific Palisades, in roughly half the time it took to start similar operations after the devastating 2018 Woolsey Fire. The Governor issued an
executive order
to ensure that childcare providers impacted are aware of their potential eligibility for Disaster Unemployment Assistance and have the support needed to apply. Governor Newsom and First Partner Jennifer Siebel Newsom
surveyed ongoing work
by state crews to prepare the Eaton Fire burn scar area ahead of rain, part of a whole-of-government operation to protect the state ahead of an incoming winter storm.
Wednesday, Feb. 13:
The Governor signed an executive order to
cut more red tape
and continue streamlining rebuilding, recovery, and relief for survivors.
Wednesday, Feb. 19:
The Governor announced a proposal to create an
over $125 million mortgage relief program
to assist homeowners whose homes were destroyed or severely damaged by recent natural disasters, placing them at risk of foreclosure.
Sunday, Feb. 23:
The Governor
launched Engaged California
, a program to support community conversations about important topics using digital platforms. The platform will first focus on recovery efforts.
Tuesday, Feb. 25:
In less than 30 days, federal and state crews substantially
completed wildfire hazardous debris cleanup
for the Eaton and Palisades fires – marking the fastest-ever hazardous debris removal effort in the nation.
Wednesday, Feb. 26:
T
hrough his California Jobs First initiative, the Governor announced Los Angeles is getting
$13 million to support rebuilding
and recovery efforts.
[Last updated March 4]
Recent News
,
Top Story
Facebook
X
Email
Copy Link
Recent news
With rain incoming, California takes action to protect fire-impacted communities in Los Angeles County
Mar 5, 2025
News What you need to know: Governor Newsom has directed his Office of Emergency Services to coordinate with key partners during this next round of winter weather to strategically preposition critical resources to protect the public.  Los Angeles, California – As...
California seizes $534 million in illegal cannabis in 2024
Mar 4, 2025
News What you need to know: California enforcement officials have seized an estimated retail value of $534 million of unlicensed cannabis in 2024. Since 2019, officials have seized approximately $2.8 billion in illegal cannabis. Sacramento, California – Reinforcing...
With growing fire risk, Governor Newsom proclaims state of emergency to fast-track critical wildfire prevention projects statewide
Mar 1, 2025
News What you need to know: Governor Newsom is proclaiming a state of emergency to fast-track critical forest management projects – part of the state’s ongoing efforts to protect communities from catastrophic wildfire. SACRAMENTO – Following the devastation of the Los...
About
Contact us
Sign up for news updates
Join the Administration
Organizational chart
Initiatives
Abortion access
Building California's future
Climate action
Gun safety
Mental health for all
Awareness campaigns
Heat Ready
Ready for Wildfire
Register to Vote
Save Our Water
Clemency & Parole
Clemency
Parole
Rewards for unsolved cases
Footer Utility Links
Conditions of Use
Privacy Policy
Accessibility
Website Certification
Sitemap
Footer Social Media Links
Website Publishing Information
Powered by: CAWeb Publishing Service
© Copyright
2025
Original text
Rate this translation
Your feedback will be used to help improve Google Translate
Copy link
✓
Thanks for sharing!
Find any service
AddToAny
More…