Los Angeles wildfire hazardous debris cleanup reaches substantial completion in record time | Governor of California
Skip to content
Los Angeles fires:
Go to CA.gov/LAfires for latest information and resources
Governor of California
About
Priorities
News
Join the Administration
First Partner
Contact
To search the site, enter a search term
Official website of the State of California
CA.gov
Resources for California
Key services
Health insurance or Medi-Cal
Business licenses
Food & social assistance
Find a CA state job
Vehicle registration
More +
Digital vaccine record
Traffic tickets
Birth certificates
Lottery numbers
Unemployment
View all CA.gov services
Less -
Popular topics
Abortion
Building California
Climate Action
Gun Safety
Mental health care for all
Opioids
Back to top
News
Feb 25, 2025
Los Angeles wildfire hazardous debris cleanup reaches substantial completion in record time
What you need to know:
More than 9,000 properties were cleared of hazardous materials in less than 30 days – marking the fastest-ever hazardous debris removal effort in the nation.
LOS ANGELES – In less than 30 days, federal and state crews have substantially completed wildfire hazardous debris cleanup for the Eaton and Palisades fires, as part of broader efforts to help Los Angeles firestorm survivors recover and rebuild at a record pace.
U.S. EPA crews, working alongside state Department of Toxic Substances Control (DTSC) personnel and the U.S. Department of Defense, have reached 99% completion, with around 100 harder-to-access properties remaining. Crews have assessed and cleaned up thousands of residential parcels – clearing more than 9,000 properties of hazardous materials.
Phase 1 prioritizes the removal of household hazardous waste, which was necessary to begin Phase 2 clearing of structural debris. Governor Gavin Newsom joined federal, state and local leaders to
launch that important second phase of work
and mark the swift progress of cleanup efforts.
Thanks to the hard work and dedication of hundreds of federal and state crews, the first phase of debris cleanup is coming to a close and we can turn our focus fully to structural debris removal. Under the leadership of EPA Administrator Lee Zeldin, crews cleaned hazardous waste from thousands of properties in less than 30 days, a record pace never seen before at this scale.
We’re working hand-in-hand with President Trump and his administration to clear debris as fast as possible to get Angelenos back to their properties to start rebuilding.
Governor Gavin Newsom
By the numbers
Historic recovery and rebuilding efforts — faster than ever before
Cutting red tape to help rebuild Los Angeles faster and stronger.
Governor Newsom issued an executive order to
streamline the rebuilding of homes and businesses
destroyed — suspending permitting and review requirements under the California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA) and the California Coastal Act. The Governor also issued an executive order
further cutting red tape
by reiterating that permitting requirements under the California Coastal Act are suspended for rebuilding efforts and directing the Coastal Commission not to issue guidance or take any action that interferes with or conflicts with the Governor’s executive orders. Additionally, he signed an executive order to
cut more red tape
and continue streamlining rebuilding, recovery, and relief for survivors. The Governor also
issued an executive order
removing bureaucratic barriers, extending deadlines, and providing critical regulatory relief to help fire survivors rebuild, access essential services, and recover more quickly.
Providing tax and mortgage relief to those impacted by the fires.
California postponed the
individual tax filing deadline
to October 15 for Los Angeles County taxpayers. Additionally, the state extended the January 31, 2025, sales and use tax filing deadline for Los Angeles County taxpayers until April 30 — providing
critical tax relief for businesses
. Governor Newsom suspended penalties and interest on late property tax payments for a year,
effectively extending the state property tax deadline
. The Governor also worked with
state
– and
federally-chartered banks
that have committed to providing mortgage relief for survivors in certain zip codes. For additional relief, Governor Newsom is
sponsoring new legislation
to allow homeowners who receive insurance payments for lost or damaged property to receive the interest accrued rather than lenders. The Governor is also proposing to create an
over $125 million mortgage relief program
to assist homeowners whose homes were destroyed or severely damaged by recent natural disasters, placing them at risk of foreclosure.
Fast-tracking temporary housing and protecting tenants.
To help
provide necessary shelter
for those immediately impacted by the firestorms, the Governor issued an executive order to make it easier to streamline construction of accessory dwelling units, allow for more temporary trailers and other housing, and suspend fees for mobile home parks. Governor Newsom also
issued an executive order
that prohibits landlords in Los Angeles County from evicting tenants for sharing their rental with survivors displaced by the Los Angeles-area firestorms.
Mobilizing debris removal and cleanup.
With an eye toward recovery, the Governor
directed fast action
on debris removal work and mitigating the potential for mudslides and flooding in areas burned. He also
signed an executive order
to allow expert federal hazmat crews to start cleaning up properties as a key step in getting people back to their properties safely. The Governor also
issued an executive order
to help mitigate risk of mudslides and flooding and protect communities by hastening efforts to remove debris, bolster flood defenses, and stabilize hillsides in affected areas. Governor Newsom joined federal and local partners to
begin work on structural debris removal
— just 35 days after the start of the fires, a record-breaking pace for cleanup.
Safeguarding survivors from price gouging.
Governor Newsom expanded restrictions to protect survivors from illegal price hikes on
rent, hotel and motel costs
, and
building materials or construction
. Report violations to the Office of the Attorney General
here
.
Directing immediate state relief.
The Governor signed legislation
providing over $2.5 billion
to immediately support ongoing emergency response efforts and to jumpstart recovery efforts for Los Angeles. California quickly launched
CA.gov/LAfires
as a single hub of information and resources to support those impacted and
bolsters in-person Disaster Recovery Centers
. That
website features
a
dashboard
tracking recovery efforts and a
recovery services finder
to help connect survivors with help. The Governor also
launched LA Rises
, a unified recovery initiative that brings together private sector leaders to support rebuilding efforts. Governor Newsom announced that individuals and families directly impacted by the recent fires living in certain zip codes may be eligible to receive
Disaster CalFresh food benefits
.
Getting kids back in the classroom and supporting childcare providers.
Governor Newsom signed an executive order to
quickly assist displaced students
in the Los Angeles area and bolster schools affected by the firestorms. Governor Gavin Newsom issued an
executive order
to ensure that childcare providers are aware of their potential eligibility for Disaster Unemployment Assistance and have the support needed to apply.
Protecting victims from real estate speculators.
The Governor issued an executive order to
protect firestorm victims
from predatory land speculators making aggressive and unsolicited cash offers to purchase their property.
Helping businesses and workers get back on their feet.
The Governor issued an executive order to
support small businesses and workers
, by providing relief to help businesses recover quickly by deferring annual licensing fees and waiving other requirements that may impose barriers to recovery.
Press Releases
,
Recent News
Facebook
X
Email
Copy Link
Recent news
With rain incoming, California takes action to protect fire-impacted communities in Los Angeles County
Mar 5, 2025
News What you need to know: Governor Newsom has directed his Office of Emergency Services to coordinate with key partners during this next round of winter weather to strategically preposition critical resources to protect the public.  Los Angeles, California – As...
California seizes $534 million in illegal cannabis in 2024
Mar 4, 2025
News What you need to know: California enforcement officials have seized an estimated retail value of $534 million of unlicensed cannabis in 2024. Since 2019, officials have seized approximately $2.8 billion in illegal cannabis. Sacramento, California – Reinforcing...
With growing fire risk, Governor Newsom proclaims state of emergency to fast-track critical wildfire prevention projects statewide
Mar 1, 2025
News What you need to know: Governor Newsom is proclaiming a state of emergency to fast-track critical forest management projects – part of the state’s ongoing efforts to protect communities from catastrophic wildfire. SACRAMENTO – Following the devastation of the Los...
About
Contact us
Sign up for news updates
Join the Administration
Organizational chart
Initiatives
Abortion access
Building California's future
Climate action
Gun safety
Mental health for all
Awareness campaigns
Heat Ready
Ready for Wildfire
Register to Vote
Save Our Water
Clemency & Parole
Clemency
Parole
Rewards for unsolved cases
Footer Utility Links
Conditions of Use
Privacy Policy
Accessibility
Website Certification
Sitemap
Footer Social Media Links
Website Publishing Information
Powered by: CAWeb Publishing Service
© Copyright
2025
Original text
Rate this translation
Your feedback will be used to help improve Google Translate
Copy link
✓
Thanks for sharing!
Find any service
AddToAny
More…