Title: Help your business
URL: https://www.ca.gov/lafires/help-your-business/
Priority: 5
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Home
2025 Los Angeles Fires
Help your business
Help your business
2025 Los Angeles Fires
Help your business
2025 Los Angeles fires
Get help online
Recovery services finder
Get help in person
Plan your in-person visit
See real-time info
Start your recovery
Return to your home safely
Cleanup and debris removal
Help your business
Volunteer
Track LA's progress
Find support and assistance for local business recovery.
Find the nearest Business Recovery Center
Businesses can get in-person help.
West Hollywood Chamber of Commerce
8272 Santa Monica Blvd.
West Hollywood, CA 90046
Hours open:
Thursday - Saturday, 9 am to 5:30 pm
Directions
West Hollywood Chamber of Commerce
Women’s Business Center
18700 Sherman Way, Suite # 112
Reseda, CA 91335
Hours open:
Monday - Wednesday, 8:30 am to 5:30
pm
Parking:
Back of building on Yolanda Ave.
Directions
Women’s Business Center
Santa Monica Chamber of Commerce
2525 Main Street, Suite #103
Santa Monica, CA 90405
Hours open:
Monday - Wednesday, 9 am to 5 pm
Directions
Women’s Business Center
Support for businesses
Small business support
by Small Business Administration (SBA)
SBA loan deadline: March 10, 2025
The SBA has many resources to help small businesses and
entrepreneurs. This includes financing, training, and advocacy.
Emergency and disaster assistance for employers
by Employment Development Department (EDD)
EDD offers services to support employers impacted by disasters.
This includes disaster relief payments, extensions for payments,
and payroll reports.
Resources and steps for business recovery
by California Office of the Small Business Advocate (CalOSBA)
CalOSBA offers resources and support for businesses and workers
impacted by the wildfires. This includes financial help, recovery
programs, and workforce support.
LA Region Small Business Relief Fund
by City and County of Los Angeles
LA County businesses and nonprofits can get cash grants from
$2,000 to $25,000. Submit your application by March 12.
Tax help and relief
Business income taxes
by Franchise Tax Board (FTB)
Businesses impacted by the wildfires may postpone filing and
paying income taxes. The deadline for them is now October 15,
2025. Only Los Angeles County was granted postponement. If the
principal place of business is outside of Los Angeles County, you
must file and pay by the normal due dates.
Emergency sales tax or fee relief
by CA Department of Tax and Fee Administration (CDTFA)
Get emergency relief from penalties and interest. You can also get
copies of tax records and up to a 3- month filing extension on
your taxes.
Payroll taxes
by Employment Development Department (EDD)
Employers in Los Angeles and Ventura Counties directly affected by
the Palisades Fire may request up to a two-month extension.
Businesses may have extensions to:
File their state payroll reports:
Reporting extension
Deposit payroll taxes without penalty or interest:
Payroll tax extension
Property tax
by the State of California and LA County
The state
extended the property tax deadline
for businesses affected by the LA fires. You can apply for
property tax reassessment with the
Los Angeles County Assessor
. Learn more about
property tax reassessments and base year value transfers
.