Title: Track LA's progress
URL: https://www.ca.gov/lafires/track-progress/
Priority: 7
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Home
2025 Los Angeles Fires
Track LA's progress
Track LA's progress
2025 Los Angeles Fires
Track LA's progress
2025 Los Angeles fires
Get help online
Recovery services finder
Get help in person
Plan your in-person visit
See real-time info
Start your recovery
Return to your home safely
Cleanup and debris removal
Help your business
Volunteer
Track LA's progress
LA's recovery is Governor Newsom's top priority. See all state actions
to support recovery and rebuilding on
the Governor's website
.
People helped
Local, state, and federal governments offer in-person help at disaster
recovery centers.
At disaster recovery centers
visits
Reported by Federal Emergency Management Agency
By FEMA assistance
people helped
$
M
distributed to individuals
Reported by Federal Emergency Management Agency
Schools reopened
Many public schools operating in fire affected areas were damaged or
destroyed. Federal, state, and local government is coordinating to
help schools resume instruction for students.
Damaged or destroyed public schools
of
8
have resumed instruction
Teaching in-person:
Teaching online:
Reported to Schools Task Force
Properties cleaned up
There are 2 phases of cleanup:
Phase 1
: U.S. Environmental Protection Agency
clears household hazardous waste
Phase 2
: U.S. Army Corps of Engineers clears
structural debris
Currently, LA County is
accepting Right of Entry forms
for Phase 2. Once validated by the county, the U.S. Army Corps of
Engineers assesses properties and begins debris removal.
Phase 1
Hazardous household waste cleanup
Hazardous household waste cleanup progress
Phase 1 complete
100%
parcels completed
Data notes
For a detailed breakdown of Phase 1 progress, see the
U.S. Environmental Protection Agency's progress
dashboard
.
Complete means staff finished removing hazardous waste,
found unsafe structural debris that requires Phase 2
cleanup, or could not gain access to the property.
The U.S. Army Corps of Engineers will clear any unsafe
properties in phase 2.
Reported by U.S. Environmental Protection Agency
Phase 2
Structural debris removal
Right of Entry forms
9,417
Right of Entry forms submitted to LA County
Opt-in:
Opt-out:
Reported by LA County
Structural debris removal progress
parcels have been accepted for Phase 2 debris removal
Phase 2 progress
0%
parcels completed
Data notes
For a detailed breakdown of the Phase 2 process and current
status, see the
U.S. Army Corps of Engineers' progress dashboard
.
Property owners must submit opt-in Right of Entry forms for
the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers to complete Phase 2.
Property owners that opt out of this process must cover
debris removal expenses and work.
The progress bar measures the number of parcels that have
completed Phase 2 against the estimated total number of
eligible parcels.
Complete means that structural debris has been removed from
the property and the parcel has been returned back to the
owner.
Reported by U.S. Army Corps of Engineers
Water restored
The California State Water Resources Control Board is working with
local water systems impacted by the fires to restore safe drinking
water for residents.
Water systems status
systems safe to drink
systems in progress
Reported by State Water Resources Control Board
Air quality
South Coast Air Quality Management District and the California Air
Resources Board are working together to measure air quality in your
area.
Eaton fire area
Mobile monitoring survey #1 was completed on January 31, 2025.
Overall, results show
no elevated
levels of:
Air toxic metals including lead and arsenic
Volatile Organic Compounds including benzene
Some elevated levels of methane, possibly from gas leaks, were
detected. These results were reported to utilities and public
health agencies for further investigation.
Mobile monitoring survey #2 was completed on February 19, 2025,
and results will be posted when analysis is complete.
Reported by South Coast Air Quality Management District
Palisades fire area
Mobile monitoring survey #1 was completed on February 10, 2025.
Overall, results show
no elevated
levels of:
Air toxic metals including lead and arsenic
Volatile Organic Compounds including benzene
One elevated level of methane, possibly from a gas leak, was
detected. This result was reported to utilities and public
health agencies for further investigation.
Mobile monitoring survey #2 was completed on February 21, 2025,
and results will be posted when analysis is complete.
Reported by South Coast Air Quality Management District
How we are monitoring
mobile monitoring surveys completed in Eaton and Palisades
areas
stationary air quality monitoring sites deployed for Eaton
and Palisades areas
additional stationary air quality monitoring sites planned
Reported by South Coast Air Quality Management District
Monitoring occurs in two stages: mobile monitoring surveys and
stationary monitoring.
Stage 1: Mobile monitoring surveys:
These capture a
snapshot in time of toxic metals and volatile organic compounds
(VOCs). This will help identify locations for stationary air quality
monitoring sites. There were 4 mobile monitoring surveys: 2 in the
Eaton Fire area and 2 in the Palisades Fire area.
Stage 2: Stationary air quality monitors:
They
measure pollutants in the air. This includes particulates (PM2.5 and
PM10), lead, arsenic, other toxic metals, and asbestos.
For more information, visit South Coast Air Quality Management
District's
2025 Wildfire Response page
.